I18N documentation
===================================

## Context
We use the new system of translation in PrestaShop 1.7, which is based on Symfony Translation component.
This system allows us to manage translations in a more efficient way and to use the same translation files for both the front office and the back office.

### Link to the documentation
[Symfony Translation component documentation](https://devdocs.prestashop-project.org/1.7/modules/creation/module-translation/new-system/)

## Information
The structure of the domain is `Modules.{ModuleName}.{FileName}`. The file name is the name of the file where the translation is used, without the extension.
For example, if you use a translation in a file called `MyController.php`, the domain will be `Modules.Alma.Mycontroller`, first letter in uppercase only.

/!\ If you don't see the translation in the back office, thing about clearing the cache of PrestaShop.
    You can do it by deleting the content of the `var/cache` folder in your PrestaShop installation.

## Generator
To generate the translation files, you can use the command line tool `translation:update` of Symfony.
This tool will scan your code and generate the translation files in the `translations` folder of your module.
You can use the following command to generate the translation files for the `en` language:
These command need to be executed in a docker container.
```bash
php bin/console translation:update en-US --domain=Modules.Alma --force
```

We created a task to generate the translation files from a docker env, you can use it by running the following command more easily from your workstation:
```bash
task translation:update
```

If generator doesn't work, you can also export the translations from the back office of PrestaShop.
To do this, go to the "Translations" page in the back office, select your module and click on the "Export" button.
This will download a XLF file with all the translations of your module.

## Example code to use translations in your code
### For legacy controllers
```php
$this->module->trans('My module title', [], 'Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile');
$this->module->trans('Hello %username%!', ['%username%' => 'John', ], 'Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile');
```

The second et third parameters are optional, but the key is mandatory. If you don't specify the optionals parameters, the default domain will be `Modules.Alma.Alma`.
### For Symfony controllers
```php
$this->trans('Some text being translated', 'Modules.Alma.NameOfTheFile', []);
$this->trans('Hello %username%!', 'Modules.Alma.NameOfTheFile', ['%username%' => 'John', ]);
```

### For Twig templates
```twig
{{ 'Some text being translated'|trans({}, 'Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile') }}
{{ 'Hello %username%!'|trans({'%username%': 'John'}, 'Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile') }}
```

### For Smarty templates
```smarty
{l s='Welcome to this page!' d='Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile'}
{l s='Hello %username%!' sprintf=['%username%' => 'John'] d='Modules.Alma.Nameofthefile'}
```

## We use the Crowdin Provider to generate the translation files in the `translations` folder of your module.
The Crowdin Provider is a tool that allows you to manage your translations in Crowdin and to generate the translation files in your module automatically.
```bash
task crowdin:upload #For upload source file to Crowdin
task crowdin:download #For download translation files from Crowdin
```
